.TH DFU-UTIL 1 "September 23, 2012"
.SH NAME
dfu-util \- Device firmware update (DFU) USB programmer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" Listing devices
.B dfu-util
.B \-l 
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR vid:pid \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR interface \|]
.RB [\| \-a
.IR alt-intf \|]
.br
.\" Download to or upload from device
.B dfu-util
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR pid:vid \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR interface \|]
.RB [\| \-a
.IR alt-intf \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR size \|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR address \|]
.RB [\| \-R \|]
.RB [\| \-D \||\| \-U
.IR file \|]
.\" --help and --version
.br
.B dfu-util
.RB [\| \-hV \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dfu-util
is a program that implements the host (computer) side of the USB DFU
(Universal Serial Bus Device Firmware Upgrade) protocol.
.sp
dfu-util communicates with devices that implement the device side of the
USB DFU protocol, and is often used to upgrade the firmware of such
devices.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-l, \-\-list"
List the currently attached DFU capable USB devices.
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-device" " [\fIVENDOR\fP]:[\fIPRODUCT\fP]"
Specify vendor and/or product ID of the DFU device. Both
.B VENDOR
and
.B PRODUCT
are hexadecimal numbers (no prefix needed).
Example:
.sp
.B "  $ dfu-util --device 1457:51ab"
.sp
If you only have one standards-compliant DFU device attached to your computer,
this is optional. However, as soon as you have multiple DFU devices connected,
dfu-util will detect this and abort, asking you to specify which device
to use.
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-path" " BUS-PORT. ... .PORT"
Specify the path to the DFU device.
.TP
.BR "\-c, \-\-cfg" " CONFIG-NR"
Specify the configuration of the DFU device. Note that this is only used for matching, the configuration is not set by dfu-util.
.TP
.BR "\-i, \-\-intf" " INTF-NR"
Specify the DFU interface number.
.TP
.BR "\-a, \-\-alt" " ALT"
Specify the altsetting of the DFU interface by name or by number.
.TP
.B "\-t, \-\-transfer-size" " SIZE"
Specify the number of bytes per USB transfer. The optimal value is
usually determined automatically so this option is rarely useful. If
you need to use this option for a device, please report it as a bug.
.TP
.BR "\-U, \-\-upload" " FILE"
Read firmware from device into
.BR FILE .
.TP
.BR "\-D, \-\-download" " FILE"
Write firmware from
.B FILE
into device.
.TP
.B "\-R, \-\-reset"
Issue USB reset signalling after upload or download has finished.
.TP
.BR "\-s, \-\-dfuse-address" " address"
Specify target address for raw binary download/upload on DfuSe devices. Do
.B not
use this for downloading DfuSe (.dfu) files. Modifiers can be added
to the address, separated by a colon, to perform special DfuSE commands such
as "leave" DFU mode, "unprotect" and "mass-erase" flash memory.
.TP
.B "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Print more information about dfu-util's operation. A second
.B -v
will turn on verbose logging of USB requests. Repeat this option to further
increase verbosity.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Show a help text and exit.
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Using dfu-util in the OpenMoko project
(with the Neo1973 hardware)
.PP
Flashing the rootfs:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a rootfs -R -D /path/to/openmoko-devel-image.jffs2"
.PP
Flashing the kernel:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a kernel -R -D /path/to/uImage"
.PP
Flashing the bootloader:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a u-boot -R -D /path/to/u-boot.bin"
.PP
Copying a kernel into RAM:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a 0 -R -D /path/to/uImage"
.sp
Once this has finished, the kernel will be available at the default load
address of 0x32000000 in Neo1973 RAM.
.B Note:
You cannot transfer more than 2MB of data into RAM using this method.
.sp
.SS Using dfu-util with a DfuSe device
.PP
Flashing a
.B .dfu
(special DfuSe format) file to the device:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a 0 -D /path/to/dfuse-image.dfu"
.PP
Reading out 1 KB of flash starting at address 0x8000000:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a 0 -s 0x08000000:1024 -U newfile.bin"
.PP
Flashing a binary file to address 0x8004000 of device memory and
ask the device to leave DFU mode:
.br
.B "  $ dfu-util -a 0 -s 0x08004000:leave -D /path/to/image.bin"
.\" There are no bugs of course
.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs to the dfu-util mailing list at
.BR dfu-util@lists.gnumonks.org .
Please use the
.IR --verbose " option (repeated as necessary) to provide more"
information in your bug report.
.SH SEE ALSO
The dfu-util home page is
.B http://dfu-util.gnumonks.org
.SH HISTORY
dfu-util was originally written for the OpenMoko project by
Weston Schmidt <weston_schmidt@yahoo.com> and 
Harald Welte <hwelte@hmw-consulting.de>. Over time, nearly complete
support of DFU 1.0, DFU 1.1 and DfuSe ("1.1a") has been added.
.SH LICENCE
.B dfu-util
is covered by the GNU General Public License (GPL), version 2 or later.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This manual page was originally written by Uwe Hermann <uwe@hermann-uwe.de>,
and is now part of the dfu-util project.
